Settings,ssh,sshkeepalive to avtivate
What is devops ?
Software development lyfe cycle to automate the devops and to release the application.
Development team(planning coding build testing) Operation team(Release Deployment operate monitrate)

What is application?
It is a software. 
Application is a combination of service which is used by the user.
Git full form ?
Global information(means source code) we can tracker

version control system (or) source code management 
vcs meaning: it will store each version code is seperately

                  What is git ?
Git is a distrubuted version control system
git is used to we can track the multipul files
it will maintain multiple version of the same file.
it is platform independent and it is free opensource
They can handle large projects of efficently
its written on c Program
its came on 2005

platform independent(means you can install windows or macos or linux it will work)

443 status code(in a file system particular part is damage so we willget the 443)

                 Git archicture ?
Working Directory: where we write the source code 
Staging area:  where we track the source code
Reporsitory: where we store trackd code
Creating a workig directory
mkdir college  
cd college/
yum install git -y    (yum pkg we need to install git -y yes)
git init
ll -a
Note: .git we cant run any commands of git
We can crate a file and  we can track file and we can save the file

touch file1                      To create a file
git status 
git add file1                    To track file
git status                       To check the status of file
git commit -m "ver-1" file       To save file

How many files are commited to give the list (git log).
git log
I want out put single line.
git log --oneline
                     
           ((.git means these is local repo))
Each developer will write the source code we need to push the github


git branch  To see the branch
if we want to see the branch we need to inital commit then only we see.
We need to create the appplication  so we can index.html
vim index.html   
git add index.html
git status
git commit -m "abc" index.html
git branch           Now we can the branch

How to crate a branch
git branch apple
git checkout apple
touch apple{1..5}    Now we have working directory
git add movies*      Now we have tracked
git commmit -m "dev-1" apples*   Now we have committed

git checkout -b banana   branch is created then go to the branch
touch banana{1..5}
git add banana*
git commit -m "dev-3" banana*

How to connect github to git 
we can use these command git remote add orgin https://github.com/obul2251/paytm.git
ll -a  local.git to paytm.git connect.

                    (Now we can push the code) 
git checkout master
git push origin master
username:obul2251
passwd:
How to create a token go to settings developersettings Personalaccestoken tokensclassic
Generate new token  generate new token classic TOkenName:Paytm first 6 select then generate token

we have to delete local on source we nedd to get github
 
cd
ll
rm -rf paytm/
ll
git clone paste link
ll     paytm is available
cd paytm/
ll       index.html is having
git checkout movies
ll
git chechout apple
ll



 












 

 







