                                    //What is git ?
Git is a distributed version control system 
git is used to we can track the multipul files
It allows multiple developers to collaborate on projects
it will maintain multiple version of the same file.
it is platform independent and it is free opensource
They can handle large projects of efficently


                                  // How does Git differ from other version control systems like SVN?
while using svn is centralized version control system 
we can track the code and change code in a single file or single repository.

while using git is Distributed version control system 
we can track the code and change code in a multipul file or multipul repository.

                                  //How do you resolve merge conflicts in Git?
we can merge 2 diffrent branches with same file and different code conflcits will occur.
how to resolve: manually


                                  //What is gitbub?
github is distributed version control system
its a remote repo.
we can store source code on internet.
if we delete code on local we can get from github or internet.
we can merge code of multiple developers.



my self these is obulreddy i have three years of experince in devops and cloud
Actually i worked on various tools for build and release engineering even automation and orcheststraion
where my primary resposibilities are building cicd pipelines integrating multiple states 
into the pipeline so i deal with so many  teams we do write cicd pipeline for application
these are multiple stages like unitesting static code analysis we do create images and publish images

                       // Introduce my self//
My Self these is obulreddy I have three years exeperince into devops. 
I have worked on multipule number of devops tools.
Like container service docker on container orchestration deployment to kubernetes.
and configuration managenet tool like as ansible.
and pipeline integrating into multiple stages we do write cicd pipeline for applicatio jenkins and also 
I having of experince aws services like storage service and database service i have worked so for.







